Let's see now how we're
going to be using images as textures for these 3D
objects that we have created. Perhaps you've seen image loading in previous classes
in other modules, but let me just go over it again. We're going to go into
more detail very soon. I need a variable called the img, or whatever name I want it. This is my variable, that's where I'm going to
store the image. Then I need a function
called preload. Now in this function, I will use the image I created, wait a second, the asset. I have a folder
here called assets. I have here an
image called rocks. I'm going to be saying here, load the image from a
folder called assets, and it's called rocks.jpg. The reason I'm putting it inside the preload function
is because I don't want the setup or
the draw function to be called until that
image is loaded. Imagine it's a huge image, you don't want it to be loading, let say in setup
and then for it to proceed in a draw function, it keep calling it draw it, draw it draw, when we're not 100 percent sure that
it has in fact loaded. We're putting it in preload
to make sure that it load before anything else
below it has been called. That being done, we can
say here now background 0, and then we can use
the texture command, texture img and use a box. For example, apply this
on the box, say box 300. Let's run this app. Perfect. We have here the
texture applied on a box. Let me rotate the
box a bit so that it's clear what's going on. RotateY frameCount,
and I'll put here, of course, the thing that I
always put angleMode DEGREES. There we go. I've
applied an image and used it to create a texture
to apply on this 3D object. I could use, for example, if I don't want to use a box, I could say plane 500
by 500. There we go. You see there's a line there through the
plane, a diagonal line. I don't know if you can
see it in your screens. They can just say noStroke,
and that will go away. That is the line from
the two triangles that make up the plane. That's how you apply
an image to a surface.